### Simple Storage Service S3 #### Object Based Storage
S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure,durable,fast,highly scalable object storage.Amazon s3 is easy to use,with a simple web interface to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.
S3 is a place to store files
S3 is object based storage
the data is spread across multiple faciliteis and services.
# S3 basics # 
S3 is object based storage i.e. allows you to upload files
files are stored in buckets 
size of single file can be from 0 bytes to 5TB
there is unlimited storage
S3 is univesal namespace,that is name of the bucket must be unique globally.
read after write consistency for puts of new object
evently cosistency for overwrite puts and Deletes (can take some time to propagate).

AWS-->S3-->create bucket-->name(new_s3_bucket)-->region-->create.
select-->s3-->upload-->add files-->selct file-->upload.
select-->s3 bucket-->permissions-->public access settings-->edit-->save-->confirm.
select-->s3 bucket-->make public-->object url
## S3 url
http://s3-<regionName>.amazonaws.com/<bucketname>/<filename>
# S3 Object 
S3 is object based.object consits of the follwing.
- Key (This is simply the name of the object)
- Value (This is simply the data and is made up of sequence of bytes)
- Version id(important for versioning)
- Metadata (data about data)
- Access control lists.
- Amazon gurantee 99.99% avialability for the s3 platform
- amazon gurantee 99.99% durability for s3 (11*9's)
- tired storage management
- versioning
- life cycle management
- encrption
# Properties#
1. S3 classes
Standard
intellgent-tiering
Standard-1A
one-zone-1A
Glicier
Reduced Redudency
2. Encryption
 1. none --> means object not encrypted
 2. AES-256--> means encrypt ur data
 3. AWS-KMS--> means encrypt data & use a key for decrption
3. Metadat:
it shows meta data of s3 bucket like png/pdf/jpg
4. Tags:
for objects to search organize and manage access
5. Object lock:
prevent this object from being deleted.
it enable at creating of this object. u can't enable after creation s3 bucket
# Permissions #
access for object owner and Access for other aws accounts and public access.
# Select from #
u want store some log files of webserer in s3 buckets .
u can see that logs in format of csv/json/parquet
============
aws-->s3-->buckets-->click on bucket
here u can see 
1. Overview:
2. Properties:
 1. Versioning:keep multiple versions of an object in the same bucket.
 Enable vesrsioning
 add file-->select file-->upload-->it have specific version id.
 u can speicfic file useing this version id
 versions-->hide-->some one delete object.
 u can recover it through versionging like
shows versions-->here shows delete file-->here u can see deleted file with delete marker-->select it and actions-->delete marker-->now ur file will be recoverd
 2. Server access logging:
setup  access log records that provide details about access requests.
Enable logging-->target bucket-->choose bucket-->target prefix-->/logs-->save
overview-->create folder-->logs.
after sometime logs stored
 3. Static website hosting:
host a static website, which does not require server side technologies
click on it-->here u can see 3 options-->1.use this bucket to host a website 2.redirect requsest 3.disable website hosting.-->click on 1st-->index document-->index.html-->error document-->error.html-->copy the dns url-->save
goto notepad and write index.html file (<html><h1>this is my home page from aws s3 bucket from region-mumbia <h1><html>) and also write error.html(<html><h1>this is a error page go back to home page<h1><html>)
upload this files to ur s3 bucket
open s3-->upload-->select these file-->upload
goto google-->search url dns -->here shows ur html header.
 4. Object-level-logging:
cloud taril for recording activity-->choose existing cloud trail(or)create new trail.
 5. Default encryption:
    1. none --> means object not encrypted
    2. AES-256--> means encrypt ur data
    3. AWS-KMS--> means encrypt data & use a key for decrption
 6. object lock:prevent objects from being deleted.
 7. tags: for objects to search organize and manage access
 8. Transfer acceleraton: Enable fast,easy when specific events occur in ur bucket.
 enable-->want to compare ur data transfer speed by region-->here u can see speed.
 9. events:Receive notifications when specific events occur in ur bucket.
 add notification-->name(delete event)-->events-->permenately deleted-->prefix(folder)-->suffix(file)-->send to-->sns topic-->sns-->add sns topic arn-->sns-->topics-->create subscription-->protocal-->email-->end point-->email-->create subscrption
 10. Request pays: the requester (instead of the bucket owner)will pay for requests and data transfer.

3. Permissions: 
 1. Public access settings: use the s3 block public access settings to enforce that buckets don't allow public access to data. it have default all allows false. 
 2. Access control list: Access for your aws account root user.
 3. Bucket Policy:type or rewrite existing policy.
 policy genarator select type of policy-->s3 bucket policy-->add statements-->effect-->allow-->aws service-->amazon s3-->actions-->add statement.
 4. CORS configuration: cross-origin resource shareing (cors) defines way for client web application that are loaded in one domain interect with resources in a diffrent domain.
4. Management:
 1. lifecycle:
 2. Replication:
 add rule-->set source-->entire bucket-->replication cretirea-->next-->destinations bucket-->create new bucket-->bucket name()-->region()-->options-->change the storage class for the replicated object-->select storage class--> standard1A-->next-->iam role-->create new role-->rule name(myfirst_rule)-->enabled-->next-->save.
 3. Analytics:
 4. Metrics:
 5. Inventory: u can recieve a file of ur object inventory on a daily or weekly basis for the entire bucket or a shared.
 add new-->name-->select bucket-->frequsency-->daily/weekly-->output format-->csv-->object versions-->choose all versions/specific version-->optional fields-->size/last modified date-->encryption --->save.
 6. Add lifecycle rule-->enter rule name-->add filter to limit scope of prefix-->next-->storage class transition-->current version-->next-->storage class transition-->for current versions of object-->object creation-->transition to standard-1A after-->30-->next-->configure expiration-->current version-->expire current version of object-->after-->425days-->next.